blog: add post about dedicated migration networks (#826)
kubevirt/kubevirt.github.io: _posts/2022-01-25-Dedicated-migration-network.md

> description: KubeVirt now supports using a separate network for live migrations

Reviewer: You're missing some lines, so the post did not render properly.

```suggestion
---
layout: post
author: Jed Lejosne
description: KubeVirt now supports using a separate network for live migrations
```

Author: Will do! Out of curiosity, how do you see the rendering of an open PR?
Thanks for the review!

Author: Nice, got it, thanks!

navbar_active: Blogs
category: news
tags:
  [
    "kubevirt",
    "kubernetes",
    "virtual machine",
    "VM",
    "live migration",
    "dedicated network",
  ]
comments: true
title: Dedicated migration network in KubeVirt
pub-date: January 25
pub-year: 2022
---

> Since version 0.49, KubeVirt supports live migrating VMIs over a separate network than the one kubernetes is running on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since version 0.49, KubeVirt supports live migrating VMIs over a separate network than the one Kubernetes is running on.
```

## Hardware configuration

The simplest way to use the feature is to find an unused NIC on every worker node, and to connect them all to the same switch.  

All NICs must have the same name. If they don't, they should be permanently renamed.
The process for renaming NICs varies depending on your operating system, refer to its documentation if you need help.  

Adding servers to the network for services like DHCP or DNS is an option but it is not required.
If a DHCP is running, it is best if it doesn't provide routes to other networks / the internet, to keep the migration network isolated.

## Cluster configuration

The interface between the physical network and KubeVirt is a NetworkAttachmentDefinition (NAD), created in the namespace where KubeVirt is installed.  

The implementation of the NAD is up to the admin, as long as it provides a link to the secondary network.
The admin must also ensure that the NAD is able to provide cluster-wide IPs, either through a physical DHCP, or with another CNI plugin like [whereabouts](https://github.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/whereabouts)

> Important: the subnet used here must be completely distinct from the one used by the main kubernetes network, to ensure proper routing.

Reviewer: Here, I'm thinking it's worth switching to plural to point out we should be distinct from both the cluster CIDR and the Pod CIDR
```suggestion
Important: the subnet used here must be completely distinct from the ones used by the main Kubernetes network, to ensure proper routing.
```

## Testing

If you just want to test the feature, KubeVirtCI supports the creation of multiple nodes, as well as secondary networks.
All you need is to define the right environment variables before starting the cluster.

See the example below for more info (note that text in the "video" can actually be selected and copy/pasted).

## Example

> Here is a quick [example](https://asciinema.org/a/464272) of a dual-node KubeVirtCI cluster running a migration over a secondary network.  

Reviewer: I would recommend adding some code examples to this section, as you're going into some detail to explain what happens in the asciinema video. Nothing too lengthy should be required, just some of the output you're referring to.

This would also help if the asciinema expires at some point in the future, to ensure the blog still contains the info.

Author: I was trying to avoid any code to keep the post light and easy to read.
The commands used in the asciinema are pretty basic, and example yamls can be found in the documentation.
Finally, I linked the clip to an asciinema account so it doesn't get archived (this time!)
I copy-pasted this whole section to the description of the asciinema clip, maybe I should just remove it from here and just have a link to the clip?

Reviewer: Moving this discussion to the clip makes sense, I was just thinking it helps to have the relevant piece of code present when you're discussing what happens.

Another possible path would be to link to snippets of the asciinema so they show up inline in the blog. (I've seen this before on other pages, but have no idea how do set it up -- asciinema is on my list of things I ought to go learn.

Author: Done

The clip first shows the list of environment variables used to properly configure the KubeVirtCI cluster. Those were defined before running `make cluster-up`.

It then shows and creates the a NAD on the secondary network (accessed through eth1 on every node). IPs are managed by whereabouts.

> The KubeVirt custom resource is then editted to enable live migrations and define which NAD to use for migrations. That edit triggers a restart of the virt-handler pods.

Reviewer: Spelling, but you might consider whether it would be helpful to cross-link 'enable live migrations' to the feature-gate documentation.

```suggestion
The KubeVirt custom resource is then edited to enable live migrations and define which NAD to use for migrations. That edit triggers a restart of the virt-handler pods.
```

> Looking at one of the new virt-handler pods, we can see it now connected to the migration bridge, and got an IP from whereabouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking at one of the new virt-handler pods, we can see it is now connected to the migration bridge with an IP from whereabouts.
```
